Decision Making (pub. 20260704)
It's been a while since I've written. My mindset has improved. My decision making is trying to improve.
I've noticed it's always so difficult for me to make decisions, quickly and slowly. The quick ones require sharp mental heuristics which either I do not possess, or cannot refer to quickly enough to make use of.
Slow decisions make room for heavy over-thinking. They also often have many more good answers pop up as one surveys the landscape of decisions.
I will focus more on the slower decisions because they usually carry more weight. 
They are the decisions by which we lead our lives: the decisions that have created the most influential (not necessarily in a good way) and least influential (forgettable) people throughout humanity.
I have long struggled with slow decisions. When there is more than one good answer, I try to pick them all. 
Sometimes, that is an actual possibility.
It's never a good one though (there could be a counterpoint I've yet to think of).
The vectors of each decision collapse to near-zero in unison, making any gain in magnitude from a single vector pretty much null.
That is the curse of a generalist.
The greatest polymaths have not had this issue because they tend to focus on a single direction for years before swapping, never all at once (Maybe DaVinci was all-at-once, but he split each day into 4-hour chunks of one direction. This kind of parallelism is extremely hard to accomplish, I and you are not DaVinci so we shouldn't bother.)
The further curse of a generalist is knowing that being one is inhibiting his potential, but sticking to vector-hoarding due to inertial bias.
When I tried to suddenly abandon generality in spring of '26, I came in unprepared which became the death of me.
I went from a normal generalist to still a generalist, but of nothing; not a specialist of anything.
The path out of generalism requires a good plan.
Generalism is good for letting one survey various interests before jumping into specialization.
Many top private school like Lakeside do something akin to this.
I would argue that it's best to be a generalist only until around the age of 13 or so, when the brain is developed enough to have the willpower to go past a cursory level in what it finds interesting.
But to the aging generalists such as myself, I offer this wisdom (funny of someone in my position to offer it, but whatever):
    1. Think through your entire journey as a generalist.
    2. Write down the best and worst of your surveying. 
    3. Write down what you're currently surveying. 
    4. See if the past and present have an intersection.
    5. If the intersection contains many things, search the internet and your mind for a single specialization that could cover them all.
I have yet to do this exercise myself, but I shall go and do it right now.

Georgiy