on entropy 20260617
i could have predicted my current situation back in 4th grade.

i recognize this is an arbitrary statement since my memory is not that good, nor have i spent enough time in deep thought about this topic to pick such a specific age at which i gained this ability - but the point still stands that at some arbitrary age in my childhood, as i was starting to enter into a person who actually thinks about what to do with my life, i chose to take the path of least resistance perpetually.

this has led me to accomplish great things, such as just writing "lead" instead of "led," remembering to put the comma before the ending quote, and not much else.

since august 2025, i've been thinking about entropy. maybe you could say my fall quarter activities were high in entropy - i tried a lot of things for the first time socially (parties, *, fighting social anxiety and the like), just not intellectually (to a large enough extent to feel my mind stretch, at least). since the turn of the new year, however, i have stagnated. i do not fault my fall shenanagains because they brought a unique value into my life. i do fault my lack of winter and spring shenanagains because i haven't changed as a person.

i think entropy is king in my current situation, but i'm scared of it still. it's been nearly a year that i've been scared of entropy. i dipped my toes into it in the spring but didn't capitalize on it - just stared in awe at the opportunities that arose once i dropped all prior commitments and my prior environment, but didn't pick one to grind.

to raise social entropy (easiest kind to gain things from), i must move to the bay, to do that i must have money, to do that i must have gained things from social connections or super hard work. doing nothing, however, is very easy and relaxing, actually. i'm kind of doing it right now! so nice and simple, doesn't have an introductory period where you have to slave away to make some holds that you can grab on to, you can just do it whenever! when i have a mountain in front of me i just look at the ditch next to me and say, "look at this great ground, i've already managed to summit onto!"

entropy: the only way to get out of a local maximum. the function is so huge, why stay at the local maximum? so many other local maxima to explore, so many higher and greater ones! sure, you won't reach the global maximum - we're not too sure if it even exists - but who's to say you need to be #1? me personally, i'd much rather be #42178492178 than #8090123879542! progress brings meaning to life, not absolute position. don't be so naive. lack of progress is what causes sadness and sadness slows progress, isn't it easy to see? many times the negatives you face just exacerbate the overall negative they're attributed to.

believe in the power of entropy.