on writing 20260617
today is not the first time my writing has been attributed to ai, it is actually rare for it not to be.
something broke in my brain after a couple years of ai use, AP lang and lit I was doing pretty well.
college essays kinda sucked but they were a natural suckage not an AI suckage.
but now each email i write i'm gritting my teeth, pulling them until i finally get something out that I don't hate.
but it's so generic that no one can tell it is even from my hearth. i am not a person. do a person who reads my emails, my writing, etc., i am sorry for making you all believe that npcs roam the earth because I really seem like one
right now i'm just speed writing making sure to not overthink anything at all, maybe this is closer to who i actually am as a person. but hopefully it changes bc i dont like who i am as a person currently. hopefully i will post on this blog semiregularly
if i make a commitment to daily i know i will follow it, but do it as poorly as possible to meet this bar. my past has shown me that this is the case with daily commitments.
the central question of this stream of thought is how i ended up like this. how can a person who was quite unique growing up and definitely stood out from others, especially in speech but likewise in writing fall so far from grace into a generic npc?
i believe my lack of reading the past four years plays a major part. i also believe my lack of social activity does too. before, i lived with authors and friends as companions, refining me as a person. from four years ago until now, i have lived with no companions, only various foundation models. clearly that has shaped me into a maximal likelihood-spouter as well.
maybe writing will help me maybe it will not. but the very least i can do is actually try since i haven't been doing much of that for a while.

p.s. just thought about how i used to write a lot for linkedin. there, it was actually good that i have such a generic writing style - i could even write ai slop faster than ai itself!